Q001. When towing a trailer or boat, the driver of a motor vehicle is not permitted to carry the following in the trailer or boat:
Image: 1.
A. Camping equipment.
B. Flammable materials.
C. People.
D. Firearms.
A001. C.
Explanation: It is dangerous to carry people in a trailer or boat. Trailers and boats are more subject to damage in an accident. People in trailers or boats are at great risk of serious injury or death in the event of an accident.

Q002. On roads which have a median, when must drivers stop for school buses?
Image: 1.
A. Upon every approach to a school bus.
B. There is no need to stop on roads with a median.
C. Every time the bus stops.
D. When behind a stopped bus which has its upper red lights flashing.
A002. D.
Explanation: Stopping for school buses is the law; this law is designed to protect school children who need to cross streets to get on or off the bus. Drivers are required to know the law and stop for school buses. Failure to stop at the appropriate time and place could result in injury or death to children who may be crossing the roadway and will result in criminal charges to the driver of the vehicle. Drivers should always use caution near school buses because some children may not be aware of other traffic on the road.

Q003. A white arrow painted on a lane means....?
Image: 1.
A. It shows where you must stop.
B. Stop before the arrow and yield to pedestrians.
C. Move to the far left or far right lane as soon as the way is clear.
D. You may move only in the direction of the arrow.
A003. D.
Explanation:

Q004. As you approach the curve....?
Image: 1.
A. Slam on your brakes.
B. Stop before entering.
C. Try to determine the safe speed for it.
D. Speed up.
A004. C.
Explanation: To do this, look for clues such as a sign that shows the safe speed, the shape of the curve and the type of road you are driving on.

Q005. A flashing yellow beacon above an intersection:
Image: 1.
A. Requires drivers to stop if making a right turn.
B. Requires drivers to stop if making a left turn.
C. Permits drivers to continue at the same speed.
D. Warns drivers to proceed with caution.
A005. D.
Explanation: On approach to intersections with a flashing yellow beacon, drivers should scan the intersection and proceed only if the way is clear. If there is traffic near the intersection, drivers may need to stop and yield the right of way to other vehicles. Always be prepared to stop when approaching an intersection with a flashing yellow beacon.

Q006. When arriving at an intersection which has no stop line, crosswalk or sidewalk, where must drivers stop?
Image: 1.
A. Right beside the stop sign.
B. At the edge of the intersection.
C. A little into the intersection.
D. Right before the stop sign.
A006. B.
Explanation: The edge of the intersection is the correct place to stop. Stopping a little into the intersection can cause the car to be hit by vehicles travelling through the intersection. Drivers stopping too far back from the intersection will not be able to do a proper check for pedestrians or oncoming traffic.

Q007. When may drivers pass on the right shoulder?
Image: 1.
A. At any time a vehicle is turning left, even if the right shoulder is unpaved.
B. Only when passing a vehicle turning left and only if the right shoulder is paved.
C. Whenever it can be done safely.
D. Never.
A007. B.
Explanation: Passing on the shoulder of a roadway should only be done when passing a vehicle turning left, and only if the right shoulder is paved. Driving on an unpaved shoulder is dangerous; the shoulder may be too soft to accommodate a vehicle or it may not be wide enough to accommodate a vehicle. In those cases, the vehicle passing on the shoulder could end up in a ditch, could become stuck on the shoulder, could crash into rocks or trees, etc.

Q008. Why must drivers use signals when turning?
Image: 1.
A. To notify pedestrians of their intention.
B. To notify drivers behind them of their intention.
C. All answers are correct.
D. To notify oncoming traffic of their intention.
A008. C.
Explanation: It is important to use turn signals whenever making a change in any direction, whether turning onto a different roadway, changing lanes, or backing up in a direction other than the direction the vehicle is headed. Turn signals are the main way that drivers communicate with pedestrians and other drivers. Safe drivers always use turn signals and always read the turn signals of other vehicles on the road.

Q009. When the traffic signal light facing a driver is red and the driver intends to go straight through the intersection, what must the driver do first?
Image: 1.
A. Stop, give pedestrians the right-of-way, then proceed with caution.
B. Slow down, proceed when the way is clear.
C. Stop, wait until the light changes to green and the intersection is clear before moving through it.
D. Stop, proceed when the way is clear.
A009. C.
Explanation: Drivers are not permitted to proceed through an intersection when they are facing a red light. By law, drivers must wait for the light to turn green, check that the intersection is clear, then proceed carefully through the intersection.

Q010. Two solid lines painted on the pavement...?
Image: 1.
A. It is unsafe to pass.
B. Guide traffic away from fixed objects such as bridge piers or concrete islands.
C. It means the lane you are in, is ending or exiting and that you must change lanes.
D. Stop before the lines and yield to pedestrians.
A010. B.
Explanation: Yellow and black markings are also painted on the objects themselves as warnings.

Q011. Upon approaching a stop sign, what does the law require drivers to do before entering the intersection?
Image: 1.
A. Slow down and if the way is clear, proceed.
B. Slow down, sound horn and proceed.
C. Stop, and when it is safe to do so, proceed.
D. Stop, sound horn, then proceed.
A011. C.
Explanation: Drivers must come to a complete stop before entering an intersection controlled by stop signs. Always use caution at these intersections, driving defensively to avoid being in an accident if other drivers do not observe this law.

Q012. When driving with headlights on, in what situations are drivers required to use low beam headlights?
Image: 1.
A. Within 300 metres of an oncoming vehicle.
B. Within 50 metres of an oncoming vehicle.
C. Within 150 metres of an oncoming vehicle.
D. Within 30 metres of an oncoming vehicle.
A012. C.
Explanation: Drivers of oncoming vehicles can be blinded by high beam headlights, potentially causing accidents, so all drivers should ensure that they switch to low beam headlights within the required distance. When travelling at night on roads with hills or curves, be sure to look up and well ahead to spot oncoming lights and be prepared to switch to low beams at the appropriate time so that drivers of oncoming vehicles are not blinded as they come around a corner or over a hill.

Q013. When entering a highway, what must drivers do?
Image: 1.
A. Drive slowly and be prepared to stop for freeway traffic.
B. Signal, increase speed, and merge smoothly with traffic.
C. Slow down, then enter the freeway at a sharp angle.
D. Stop on the acceleration lane, wait for an opening, and then enter the freeway rapidly.
A013. B.
Explanation: The term acceleration lane identifies the purpose of the lane: to enable drivers to accelerate up to highway speed so that drivers may merge smoothly with highway traffic. It is dangerous to enter a highway when travelling too slowly. It is also dangerous to enter highway traffic in an erratic manner. Merge smoothly, as traffic permits.

Q014. If your phone rings while driving:
Image: 1.
A. All answers are correct.
B. Have a passenger take the call.
C. Let it go to voicemail.
D. Pull over and park to use your cell phone.
A014. A.
Explanation: Make it a habit to pull over and park to use your cell phone or have a passenger take the call or let it go to voice mail. If you must use a cellular phone when driving, you must use it hands-free.

Q015. When it is safe to do so, passing other vehicles on the right side?
Image: 1.
A. Is not permitted under any circumstance.
B. Is permitted at any time on any street or highway.
C. Is permitted providing it is possible to do so by driving on the shoulder of the road.
D. Is permitted when the street or highway has two or more lanes for traffic in the direction the vehicle is traveling.
A015. D.
Explanation: When driving on a multi-lane roadway, drivers in right lanes may pass traffic driving in lanes to the left provided it is safe to do so. Generally, the leftmost lane to the center line is intended for passing. After passing, drivers should move to the right lane(s) to permit other, faster drivers to pass. It is helpful if drivers follow this general rule of the road, but it is not required by law.

Q016. Are drivers responsible for their passengers buckling up?
Image: 1.
A. Only if the passengers are in the back seat.
B. Only if the passengers are in the front seat.
C. Only if the passengers are under 16 years of age.
D. Only if the passengers are over 16 years of age.
A016. C.
Explanation: Drivers must ensure that all passengers below the age of 16 are safely buckled up. Drivers are also required to ensure that younger passengers travel in appropriate seats: infant, toddler or booster seats must be used and properly secured according to the age of the children in the vehicle. This law applies even if the children are not the driver's children and even if the parent(s) of childrens give "permission" to drive their children without proper safety seats. It is the driver, not the children's parent(s), who will be charged if the children are not properly buckled up. Passengers 16 years of age and over are responsible for their own seatbelts and can be charged if not properly buckled up.

Q017. In Ontario, there is a seat belt law:
Image: 1.
A. Only when driving within a municipality.
B. No.
C. Yes.
D. Only when driving on an open highway.
A017. C.
Explanation: In Ontario, all occupants of every vehicle are required by law to wear seat belts (with a few, very limited exceptions: see the MTO driver's handbook for more details). Drivers must ensure that they and all passengers below the age of 16 are safely buckled up. Drivers are also required to ensure that younger passengers travel in appropriate seats: infant, toddler or booster seats must be used and properly secured according to the age of the children in the vehicle. This law applies even if the children are not the driver's children and even if the children's parent(s) give "permission" to drive their children without proper safety seats. It is the driver, not the children's parent(s), who will be charged if the children are not properly buckled up. Passengers 16 years of age and over are responsible for their own seatbelts and can be charged if not properly buckled up.

Q018. A person whose driver licence is under suspension, may
Image: 1.
A. operate a motor vehicle in the case of an extreme emergency.
B. operate a motor vehicle to and from work.
C. not operate a motor vehicle under any circumstance.
D. operate a motor vehicle when accompanied by a licensed driver.
A018. C.
Explanation: If a driver's license is under suspension, it is the same as if the driver does not have a license. It is illegal to drive without a license or with a suspended license, regardless of the circumstance. Even in an emergency, drivers must not drive with a suspended license: they should call 9-1-1 for appropriate emergency assistance.

Q019. What lane of traffic should drivers use when they intend to make a right-hand turn?
Image: 1.
A. The lane closest to the center line of the road.
B. The lane closest to the left side of the road.
C. The lane closest to the right side of the road.
D. The lane approaching from the left.
A019. C.
Explanation: Turning right from the appropriate lane is an important safety measure for both the driver of the vehicle and for other drivers on the road. It is dangerous to attempt to turn right by cutting across other lanes of traffic travelling in the same direction. If there are vehicles in the other lanes, the driver turning right will likely be in an accident involving those vehicles, or could cause other accidents when drivers of those vehicles take evasive action to avoid a collision with the driver.

Q020. If a signal light changes from green to amber as a driver approaches an intersection, what should the driver do?
Image: 1.
A. Stop. If stop cannot be made safely, proceed with caution.
B. Speed up to clear the intersection as quickly as possible.
C. Maintain current speed and continue through the intersection.
D. Sound horn to warn pedestrians and other drivers that the vehicle will travel through the intersection.
A020. A.
Explanation: The expression "Green means go; yellow means go faster" is incorrect, and gives drivers the wrong idea when approaching an intersection as the light turns amber. In every case where it is safe to do so, drivers must make a full stop at the intersection and wait for the next green light before proceeding. If it is not safe to stop, drivers should continue through the intersection, exercising great caution as there may be oncoming traffic attempting to turn left, or even drivers from the other street "jumping the green light (proceeding through the intersection before the light has actually changed green). Always perform a "left-center-right" visual sweep of intersections before driving through them.

Q021. How many meters in both directions must drivers be able to see in order to make a legal U-turn?
Image: 1.
A. 50 metres.
B. 250 metres.
C. 100 metres.
D. 150 metres.
A021. D.
Explanation: Good visibility is important in making U-turns. Drivers must ensure that they have sufficient time to complete the U-turn and accelerate to proper driving speed, so they must be able to see far enough in both directions to determine that they will have sufficient time to perform the manoeuver.

Q022. In what lane must drivers be before making a left turn from a one-way street?
Image: 1.
A. In the lane closest to the right-hand side of the roadway.
B. The lane does not matter provided the driver signals.
C. In the lane closest to the left-hand side of the roadway.
D. In the lane closest to the center line of the roadway.
A022. C.
Explanation: On a one-way street, all traffic is expected to drive in the same direction. Turning left from the left-most lane means that the driver does not have to cut across other drivers on the roadway. It is dangerous to attempt to turn left by cutting across other lanes of traffic travelling in the same direction. If there are vehicles in the other lanes, the driver turning left will likely be in an accident involving those vehicles, or could cause other accidents when drivers of those vehicles take evasive action to avoid a collision with the driver.

Q023. When passing a cyclist, allow at least...
Image: 1.
A. one metre between the vehicle and the cyclist.
B. three metres between the vehicle and the cyclist.
C. five metres between the vehicle and the cyclist.
D. two metres between the vehicle and the cyclist.
A023. A.
Explanation: Allowing space between the vehicle and the cyclist ensures the safety of the cyclist. Cyclists need space for a number of reasons: wind turbulence from passing vehicles may affect cyclists; cyclists may have to move over on the road to avoid grates or potholes, and so on.

Q024. Where there are no posted speed limits, the maximum speed in cities, towns and villages is:
Image: 1.
A. 30km/h.
B. 40km/h.
C. 60km/h.
D. 50km/h.
A024. D.
Explanation: All drivers are expected to know and adhere to this speed limit. Ignorance of this law will not be accepted as an excuse if a driver is caught driving over this limit.

Q025. If a driver is caught driving with a blood alcohol concentration (BAC) from ----------------, the police can immediately suspend the driver's license up to three days for a first occurrence.
Image: 1.
A. 0.08 to 0.18.
B. 0.07 to 0.08.
C. 0.08 to 0.10.
D. 0.05 to 0.08.
A025. D.
Explanation: Driving after drinking is dangerous. Every drink of alcohol can affect judgment and result in slower response time. Since each person is affected differently by alcohol, depending on body mass, food consumption, etc., the best choice is always to refrain from driving after consuming alcohol. Drivers who expect to drink must always have a plan for a safe ride home. Taking a bus, or a taxi, or getting a ride from a designated driver who does not drink are all safe options for travel after drinking.

Q026. When a police officer signals a driver to pull the vehicle over:
Image: 1.
A. The driver must continue driving until the nearest parking lot, signal, pull into the parking lot, and stop.
B. The driver must slow down, pull over as far to the left as safely possible and come to a complete stop.
C. The driver must slow down, pull over as far to the right as safely possible and come to a complete stop.
D. The driver must slow down and stop the vehicle in the driving lane it has been using.
A026. C.
Explanation: Drivers must always obey signals from police officers, whether the police officer is on foot, or in a police cruiser. If a police officer signals a driver to pull over, the driver must slow down, signal if necessary, pull as far to the right as safely possible, and come to a complete stop as quickly as safely possible. Failing to stop for the police is not a joke: it is a crime punishable by law. When stopped, drivers will almost always have to show proof of their license of driver, vehicle ownership and insurance. By law, drivers are required to carry these documents with them at all times when operating a motor vehicle. Cooperating with police officers is important for the safety of the driver, any passengers in the vehicle, and the police officers.

Q027. Legally, who has the right-of-way over all others at an intersection when the light is green?
Image: 1.
A. Pedestrians crossing against the light.
B. Pedestrians crossing with the light.
C. Drivers turning left.
D. Drivers turning right.
A027. B.
Explanation: Pedestrians legally have the right-of-way over vehicles when crossing with the light. Pedestrians crossing against the light do not legally have the right-of-way, but even if pedestrians are in the intersection illegally, drivers must yield to them so as not to cause an accident.

Q028. When does the law require lights on vehicles to be turned on?
Image: 1.
A. Between sunset and sunrise.
B. No specified time.
C. Between half an hour before sunset to half an hour after sunrise and at any other time visibility is not clear for a distance of 150m.
D. Between sunset and sunrise as well as any other time visibility is not clear for a distance of 150m.
A028. C.
Explanation: Legally, vehicle lights must be used during these hours, and at any time when visibility is poor. Newer cars are usually equipped with daytime running lights to ensure they are clearly visible to other drivers at all times. It is safest to use the vehicle's full lighting system at all times, but it is not required by law.

Q029. When parked facing uphill with a curb:
Image: 1.
A. Turn the steering wheel to the left.
B. The front wheels must be parallel to the curb.
C. The direction of the wheels doesn't matter as long as the parking brake is set.
D. Turn the steering wheel to the right.
A029. A.
Explanation: Turn the steering wheel to the left so the wheels are turned towards the road if you are facing uphill with a curb. The tires will catch the curb if it rolls backward.

Q030. If two vehicles arrive at an uncontrolled intersection at approximately the same time, the right-of-way should be given to:
Image: 1.
A. The one moving faster.
B. The vehicle approaching from the left.
C. The vehicle approaching from the right.
D. Neither one.
A030. C.
Explanation: Keeping in mind the term "right-of-way" reminds drivers that, legally, the vehicle approaching from the right must be given the right-of-way. Drivers should always use caution when entering an intersection even if they legally have the right-of-way. Other drivers might enter the intersection first; be certain to complete a "left-center-right" check of the intersection and establish eye contact with other drivers or look at other vehicles' wheels to ensure that other drivers have stopped and do not intend to enter the intersection before their turn. If another driver does enter the intersection incorrectly, the safe thing to do is yield to that driver in order to avoid a collision.

Q031. A flashing red beacon above an intersection means:
Image: 1.
A. Drivers must come to a complete stop and move through the intersection only when it is safe to do so.
B. Slow down and drive with increased caution.
C. Signal light is out of order, proceed with caution.
D. Slow down and if necessary yield right-of-way to vehicles approaching from the left or right.
A031. A.
Explanation: A flashing red beacon above an intersection is essentially the same as a four-way stop sign. Drivers approaching from all directions are expected to come to a full stop and yield right-of-way just as they would at an intersection with a four-way stop.

Q032. High Occupancy Vehicle (HOV) lanes on provincial highways are reserved for vehicles with how many occupants?
Image: 1.
A. 3 or more people.
B. At least two people.
C. Any vehicle that is travelling above the posted speed limit.
D. 4 or more people.
A032. B.
Explanation: HOV lanes are for vehicles with higher occupancy. The intention is to encourage carpooling, thus reducing the number of vehicles on the road. Drivers who carpool are "rewarded" with these special lanes where there is less likelihood of traffic congestion, so they are able to travel at or near posted speeds and get to their destination sooner. HOV lanes are not to be used as "Speeding" lanes. Some drivers "tailgate" vehicles which are driving at the posted speed limit in HOV lanes because they want to speed. It is illegal to tailgate other vehicles, and it is illegal to speed. If a driver is being tailgated and is concerned about safety, the driver should signal and pull over to the closest right lane when lane markings permit and it is safe to do so.

Q033. If an emergency vehicle with lights on and sirens sounding is travelling on a street that allows for two-way traffic, what does the law require drivers to do?
Image: 1.
A. Speed up and get out of the way.
B. Pull to the right as far as possible and stop.
C. Signal the driver to pass.
D. Continue at the same speed.
A033. B.
Explanation: When all vehicles driving in both directions correctly pull off to the right, emergency vehicles are able to proceed quickly to their destination, which may save lives. Drivers in the left lane on roads with four lanes of traffic must use caution when pulling to the right so they do not hit vehicles that may already be in the right lane. Emergency vehicles often travel along the middle of the road and sometimes use oncoming traffic lanes to get through intersections. Drivers should not drive on until emergency vehicles have passed, and should use appropriate caution when accelerating back to roadway speed, especially if a lane change is required.

Q034. When lights are required, drivers must use low beam headlights when following another vehicle within what distance?
Image: 1.
A. Within 120 metres.
B. Within 60 metres.
C. Within 100 metres.
D. Within 30 metres.
A034. B.
Explanation: Low beam headlights are aimed lower to the ground than high beam headlights. Low beams do not provide as much visibility into the distance as high beams so many drivers choose to use high beams when traveling at night on roads which do not have streetlights. High beams, because they are aimed higher, can temporarily blind drivers ahead of the vehicle, as well as drivers of oncoming vehicles. It is both a courtesy and an act of safety to switch from high beams to low beams while driving behind another vehicle or toward an oncoming vehicle.

Q035. Which driver has the right-of-way in a roundabout?
Image: 1.
A. A driver turning left into the roundabout.
B. A driver turning right into the roundabout.
C. A driver already in the roundabout.
D. A driver approaching the roundabout.
A035. C.
Explanation: Roundabouts can be somewhat confusing. Drivers should be sure to yield the roadway to vehicles already in the roundabout, even those who may have turned into it just as they approached. Drivers should be sure to enter the roundabout when it is safe and appropriate to do so, in order to avoid blocking their lane, but if in doubt they should yield right-of-way to other drivers - it's the best way to avoid an accident.

Q036. Upon approaching a Yield sign, what does the law require drivers to do?
Image: 1.
A. Slow down, stop if necessary, and proceed only when the way is clear.
B. Speed up and force their way into oncoming traffic.
C. Stop, then enter oncoming traffic slowly.
D. Stop, then enter oncoming traffic quickly.
A036. A.
Explanation: The word "yield" means to give way; drivers are required to "give way" at yield signs. Drivers must yield to oncoming traffic already in the lane they plan to enter. Sometimes drivers must come to a stop and wait for traffic to clear. If, while slowing down on approach to the yield sign, the driver visually confirms that there is no oncoming traffic, the driver is not required to stop, and may smoothly merge into the lane. Drivers should always use any merge lane present to adjust their speed to the posted speed of the new roadway, or to the speed of traffic if it is slower than the posted speed.

Q037. Why must a vehicle undergo emission testing?
Image: 1.
A. Because the vehicle is past a certain age.
B. All answers are correct.
C. Because the vehicle may be grossly polluting the environment.
D. Because the vehicle registration needs to be renewed.
A037. B.
Explanation: Emission testing is used mainly to determine if a vehicle is grossly polluting the environment. Since this often happens with older vehicles, vehicles that have passed a certain age are required to undergo emission testing before the registration can be renewed. If testing determines that the vehicle is grossly polluting the environment, registration is not renewable until appropriate repairs are made to reduce emissions. Drivers should ensure that regular maintenance is performed to help reduce harmful emissions from their vehicles.

Q038. When a streetcar is stopped to take on or discharge passengers where there is no safety zone, what does the law require drivers to do before passing the streetcar?
Image: 1.
A. Stop at least two metres behind the rear doors where passengers are getting on or off.
B. Stop behind the rear of the streetcar, then proceed with caution.
C. Sound horn and pass with caution.
D. Pass on the left side when the way is clear.
A038. A.
Explanation: By law, drivers must stop the entire time the doors are open on a streetcar, even if there appears to be no passengers getting on or off the bus. There may be passengers disembarking more slowly than others or people approaching the streetcar to board it. Streetcar drivers keep doors open to accommodate these people, who might not be visible to drivers of other vehicles, so it is important for drivers to remain stopped until the doors close.

Q039. When a right turn against a red signal light is permitted, what does the law require drivers to do before entering the intersection and making the turn?
Image: 1.
A. Stop, then edge into traffic.
B. Slow down and proceed with caution.
C. Slow down, signal and turn.
D. Come to a complete stop, wait until the way is clear, and proceed when it is safe to do so.
A039. D.
Explanation: All red light signals and red stop signs require drivers to come to a complete stop before entering the intersection. When right turns are permitted at a red light, perform a complete left-center-right check for traffic before entering the intersection to be certain that it is safe to turn.

Q040. On a roadway where traffic is moving in both directions, in what lane must a driver be before making a left turn?
Image: 1.
A. The lane does not matter provided the driver signals.
B. The lane closest to the right-hand side of the roadway.
C. The lane immediately to the right of the center line of the roadway.
D. The lane closest to the left-hand side of the roadway.
A040. C.
Explanation: Turning left from the appropriate lane is an important safety measure both for the driver of the vehicle and for other drivers on the road. It is dangerous to attempt to turn left by cutting across other lanes of traffic travelling in the same direction. If there are vehicles in the other lanes, the driver turning left will likely be in an accident involving those vehicles, or could cause other accidents when drivers of those vehicles take evasive action to avoid a collision with the driver.

Q041. In good weather, what is the minimum following distance drivers should maintain between their vehicle and a motorcycle in front of them?
Image: 1.
A. 3 seconds.
B. 1 second.
C. 2 seconds.
D. 4 seconds.
A041. A.
Explanation: Motorcycles are harder to see because of their size. Drivers of these vehicles may make sudden moves because of uneven road surfaces or debris on the roadway. Because they are less protected, drivers of motorcycles are more likely to be injured in a collision. For these reasons, drivers need to maintain a larger following distance between their vehicle and a motorcycle in front of them. While a safe following distance for cars is 2 seconds, a gap of 3 or more seconds is safest when following a motorcycle.

Q042. When approaching an intersection that is blocked with traffic, what should drivers do?
Image: 1.
A. Keep as close as possible to the car ahead.
B. Honk loudly to warn cars ahead to start moving.
C. Stop and wait until the traffic ahead moves on before entering the intersection.
D. Make a U-turn and find another road that does not have a traffic jam.
A042. C.
Explanation: Whenever an intersection is blocked or partially blocked by traffic, drivers must not enter the intersection. Drivers should only enter an intersection when the way is clear and if they are able to travel all the way across the intersection. If a traffic light has turned yellow, and traffic ahead is stopped just at the edge of the intersection, drivers must not enter the intersection, since they will not be able to clear the intersection immediately, and will block traffic.

Q043. What is meant by 'overdriving' the headlights?
Image: 1.
A. It means that drivers are going so fast that their stopping distance is farther than they can see with their headlights.
B. It means that drivers are using their high beam headlights all the time.
C. It means that drivers are overworking their headlights, increasing the likelihood that the bulbs will burn out.
D. All answers are correct.
A043. A.
Explanation: Overdriving the headlights is dangerous. Drivers who are travelling this fast will not see obstructions in the road in time to stop, and will most likely be involved in a collision as a result. Drivers are most likely to overdrive their headlights in conditions that limit visibility such as fog and heavy rain or snow. Drivers should always be certain to adjust their speed to the conditions of the road.

Q044. Never change lanes without:
Image: 1.
A. Signaling, checking the rear view mirror and checking blind spots.
B. Honking the horn and providing the appropriate hand signal.
C. Signaling and decreasing speed.
D. Checking the rear view mirror.
A044. A.
Explanation: On multilane roadways, there is always the possibility that other vehicles are travelling in lanes to the right or left of the driver changing lanes. There is also the possibility that vehicles in other lanes are accelerating into the driver's blind spot. For these reasons, drivers must always use caution when changing lanes, ensuring they signal to inform other drivers of their intention, then check their rear view mirror and blind spots to ensure it is safe to change lanes.

Q045. A flashing green light at an intersection where turns to the left and right are permitted indicates that drivers may:
Image: 1.
A. Proceed straight through if the way is clear.
B. Turn to the left if the way is clear.
C. Turn right or left or go straight if the way is clear.
D. Turn to the right if the way is clear.
A045. C.
Explanation: A flashing green light appearing on its own is a signal to indicate that drivers may proceed in any direction, provided the way is clear. It is not the same as an advanced left turn, which appears either as a green arrow or a flashing green light on a traffic signal with the red light displayed; this advanced left turn allows for turns only in the direction of the arrow, provided the intersection is clear.

Q046. A flashing blue light mounted on a motor vehicle indicates:
Image: 1.
A. A police emergency vehicle.
B. Snow removal equipment.
C. An ambulance.
D. A motor vehicle carrying explosives.
A046. B.
Explanation: Flashing lights on vehicles often indicate the purpose of the vehicle, and are useful to help drivers make appropriate decisions when these vehicles approach. For example, snow removal equipment, bearing a flashing blue light, takes up a full lane on the road and often moves much slower than other traffic. In many cases, drivers will choose to pass these vehicles when safe to do so, but during episodes of heavy snowfall it can be wiser to remain behind them and drive on the roadway they have cleared.

Q047. How much time do drivers have to inform the Ministry of Transportation of any change of name or address?
Image: 1.
A. Until the next time they need to renew their license.
B. Within 12 days.
C. Within 28 days.
D. Within 6 days.
A047. D.
Explanation: The Ministry of Transportation requires up-to-date information on all drivers at all times for many reasons, so drivers are required by law to inform the MTO of any changes to names or addresses within 6 days.

Q048. When a police officer motions them to go through an intersection where the light is red, what should drivers do?
Image: 1.
A. Stop to make sure the police officer wants them to go through.
B. Obey the police officer's signal and proceed.
C. Call the police officer's attention to the red light.
D. Wait for the light to turn green.
A048. B.
Explanation: Drivers must obey police officers' signals. Police officers working intersections are usually present to direct traffic due to malfunctioning lights, construction, or an accident. Drivers should not stop in the middle of an intersection to speak to police officers. If drivers have questions about something that is occurring on the road, their safest option is to listen to a local news station. Failing to obey the directions of a police office will result in 3 demerit points.

Q049. When are drivers permitted to lend their license to someone else?
Image: 1.
A. Never.
B. When the other person needs it for an emergency.
C. When the other person is learning to drive.
D. When the other person needs it for identification purposes.
A049. A.
Explanation: A driver's license is valid only for the person to whom it was issued: the only person permitted to use the license is the driver himself or herself. Drivers must never lend their license to someone else, not even to an underage friend who wants to buy cigarettes or alcohol. It is illegal to use another driver's license for any purpose.

Q050. The centre lane of some roads is used as a ....?
Image: 1.
A. Emergency parking.
B. Passing lane.
C. Short term parking.
D. Two-way left-turn lane.
A050. D.
Explanation: Remember that vehicles from the opposite direction also use this lane to turn left. As they wait in front of you, it may be hard for you to see oncoming traffic. Only go when you are sure the way is clear.

Q051. What is the safest action for drivers to take when their vehicle drives over black ice?
Image: 1.
A. Calmly remove their foot from the accelerator and steer immediately to side of the road.
B. Put the vehicle in neutral and steer in the desired direction.
C. Brake hard while maintaining a firm grip on the steering wheel.
D. Calmly remove their foot from the accelerator and steer in the desired direction.
A051. D.
Explanation: Driving over black ice can be dangerous because it can result in uncontrolled skidding if handled improperly. The safest course of action is to ease off the accelerator, maintain control of the vehicle, and steer in the desired direction. Drivers should avoid panic and should avoid hard braking. Drivers must not put their vehicle in neutral, because they will no longer have proper control of the vehicle.

Q052. How much insurance coverage is provided to an uninsured driver?
Image: 1.
A. $10,000 insurance coverage.
B. $20,000 insurance coverage.
C. No coverage whatsoever.
D. $15,000 insurance coverage.
A052. C.
Explanation: By law in Ontario, all drivers are required to have insurance coverage for their vehicle. Proof of insurance coverage is required to register vehicles, and for drivers to renew their vehicle plate permits. Drivers who drive illegally without insurance coverage have no financial recourse if an accident occurs, and will be held personally liable for all costs incurred. Uninsured drivers also risk the possibility of civil lawsuits which could lead to their personal bankruptcy. All drivers must obtain insurance coverage before driving. If borrowing a vehicle, drivers should be certain that they are covered under the owner's insurance.

Q053. A solid line to the left of a lane means:
Image: 1.
A. Overtake and pass with caution.
B. Pass only when there is no traffic in sight.
C. Pass as soon as it is safe to do so.
D. It is unsafe to pass.
A053. D.
Explanation: Solid lines to the left of a lane are put there because MTO has determined that it is unsafe to pass along that section of the roadway. Drivers must not attempt to pass other vehicles when there is a solid line to the left of their lane, regardless of whether the line is white (marking another lane of traffic travelling in the same direction) or yellow (marking a lane of oncoming traffic). They should wait until a broken line (white or yellow) occurs to their left, determine if it is safe to pass, then do so properly.

Q054. When driving on a highway near an exit ramp, what should drivers do if there are continuity lines to the right of their lane?
Image: 1.
A. They are not required to do anything unless they want to exit; the lane is unaffected.
B. They must merge with the traffic to their left.
C. They must exit because their lane is ending.
D. They must merge with the traffic to their right.
A054. A.
Explanation: Multilane highways often have two lanes that can be used to exit the highway at off-ramps; this allows for more traffic to move off the highway at the same exit. The right-most lane is required to exit: there will be a solid line to the right of that lane. The second exit lane usually offers the option of exiting or continuing along the freeway: it will have broken lines (continuity lines) to its right. Drivers in this extra exit lane simply continue to drive along the highway if they do not wish to exit.

Q055. By law, drivers must report a collision to the police when a person sustains injuries, or when there is damage to vehicles or other property exceeding:
Image: 1.
A. 100
B. 200
C. 500
D. 2000
A055. D.
Explanation: Failure to report a collision when required to do so by law will result in a fine of $200-$1,000, three demerit points, a possible jail term and suspension of the driver's license.

Q056. What documents may police officers require drivers to produce?
Image: 1.
A. A pink insurance slip for the vehicle being driven.
B. The ownership papers for the vehicle being driven.
C. Their own valid driver's license.
D. All the answers are correct.
A056. D.
Explanation: Drivers must always have their own valid license, as well as the pink insurance slip and ownership papers for the vehicle being driven. If drivers do not have the pink insurance slip, they can be fined up to $400.

Q057. Special passing or climbing lanes let slower vehicles move into the right-hand lane so that faster ones can pass safely in the left lane.
Image: 1.
A. True.
B. False.
A057. A.
Explanation: An advance sign tells drivers they will soon have a chance to pass.

Q058. What should drivers do if they become stranded in snow?
Image: 1.
A. Keep the engine running so that people in the vehicle will not freeze.
B. Build a fire for warmth and to signal for help.
C. Get out of the vehicle and begin walking to get help.
D. Run the vehicle's engine no more than about 5 minutes every hour to stay warm while avoiding carbon monoxide poisoning.
A058. D.
Explanation: Being stranded in the snow can be dangerous for two main reasons: exposure to cold, and/or exposure to carbon monoxide that may occur in attempting to stay warm. If needed, to keep warm, drivers may run the vehicle's engine, but should do so no more than about 5 minutes every hour. Running the engine longer or more often than this may result in carbon monoxide poisoning. Carbon monoxide is a colourless, odourless poison, so drivers might not realize they are being exposed to it until it is too late. Drivers should be certain to avoid this exposure by limiting their use of the engine whenever the tailpipe is blocked by snow or any other object. It is always best to carry emergency equipment in the vehicle. Emergency blankets are a safe way to maintain warmth in this situation.

Q059. When involved in a reportable accident, drivers must report this to their nearest provincial or municipal police...
Image: 1.
A. Immediately.
B. Within 24 hours.
C. Within 72 hours.
D. Within 48 hours.
A059. A.
Explanation: Drivers must immediately report accidents when an injury is involved, or when there is damage to vehicles or property over $1000. Failing to do so and/or failing to provide required information to the police may result in a fine of $200 to $1,000, 3 demerit points, a possible jail term and suspension of the driver's license. Drivers must remain at the scene of a collision: the penalty for leaving the scene is seven demerit points.

Q060. Fully licensed drivers (G license) may be required to attend an interview and/or re-examination of their driving ability at:
Image: 1.
A. 3 demerit points.
B. 6 demerit points.
C. 9 demerit points.
D. 15 demerit points.
A060. C.
Explanation: "G" drivers must attend an interview and re-examination when required. If they fail the re-examination test, their license can be cancelled. If they fail to attend the interview, or fail to give good reasons for keeping their license, their license may be suspended.

Q061. The hand-and-arm signal for right turn is indicated by:
Image: 1.
A. Circular motion of the arm.
B. Arm straight out the window.
C. Arm out and down.
D. Arm out and up.
A061. D.
Explanation: If your turn signals and brake lights are not working, use hand and arm signals. After signalling, move only when it is safe to do so.

Q062. At an intersection where left-turn lanes are marked on the pavement....?
Image: 1.
A. You can use it to park your car.
B. Make your turn from the marked lane.
C. You can use it to pass slower traffic.
D. Does not matter provided you signal.
A062. B.
Explanation: At an intersection where left-turn lanes are marked on the pavement, make your turn from the marked lane. Keep this lane position as you turn onto the other road.

Q063. A traffic signal with a red light and a green arrow indicates:
Image: 1.
A. Stop and then proceed.
B. Stop and wait for a green light before turning in the direction of the arrow.
C. The green arrow is for pedestrians only.
D. Proceed with caution in the direction of arrow.
A063. D.
Explanation: In many cases, traffic lights can be adjusted to help regulate the flow of traffic during rush hours. A green arrow pointing left at a traffic signal with a red light is an advanced green, permitting drivers to make left turns (provided the way is clear) before traffic in the opposite direction is permitted to travel through the intersection. A green arrow pointing right indicates that drivers may turn right without stopping, provided the way is clear.

Q064. What actions should be taken when a vehicle's brakes fail?
Image: 1.
A. Press on the brakes as hard as possible until they re-engage.
B. Wave down the nearest police officer and shout for help.
C. Use the emergency brake and honk loudly to warn other drivers while looking for a soft collision point.
D. Pump the brakes rapidly and shift into a lower gear.
A064. D.
Explanation: Drivers should remain calm in this and all emergency situations. If the brakes fail, drivers should pump the brakes rapidly, as this may prompt the brakes to begin working again. Shifting into a lower gear will help slow the vehicle because this causes the engine to work harder. Drivers should be careful not to accelerate in this situation, something that could easily happen if they panic and act without thinking.

Q065. A school bus with red signal lights flashing is stopped on a highway that has no median strip. What does the law require drivers to do?
Image: 1.
A. Wait for approaching vehicles to pass, then pass.
B. Stop at least 20 m away if approaching the bus from behind or stop a safe distance from the bus if approaching from the opposite direction. Proceed only when the bus' signal lights are no longer flashing.
C. Reduce speed and pass with care, watching for children who may be crossing the highway.
D. Proceed along the road, honking their horns loudly.
A065. B.
Explanation: School buses that are stopped with their red lights flashing are either taking on or letting off passengers. In most cases these passengers will be children travelling to or from school. These children may need to cross the highway, and are supposed to do so in front of the bus while the bus driver waits with the red lights flashing, which is why it is the law that other drivers on the road must stop. Children can be excited or distracted, and may not be aware of other traffic on the road, so drivers must stop and permit children to cross the roadway safely. Failing to stop for a school bus that has its red lights flashing is illegal. Drivers who don't stop can be fined $400 to $2,000 and get six demerit points for a first offence.

Q066. If you are reversing straight back or to the right....
Image: 1.
A. Turn your body and head to the right and look back over your right shoulder.
B. Turn your body and head to the left and look over your left shoulder.
A066. A.
Explanation: While firmly holding the steering wheel, put the gear selector in reverse and turn sideways in your seat to look over your shoulder in the direction you are moving.

Q067. The Accessible Parking Permit?
Image: 1.
A. All answers are correct.
B. Allows drivers to park in a disabled parking space even if the person with the disability is a not passenger.
C. Permits the person with the disability to park anywhere, including areas signed, "No Parking".
D. Issued to an individual, entitles the vehicle in which it is displayed to be parked in a designated disabled parking space.
A067. D.
Explanation: The Accessible Parking Permit is issued to individuals. In order to receive this permit, individuals must have a form completed by their doctor; this form is taken to MTO, where an accessible parking permit may be issued. The parking permit is to be used only by the individual for whom it was issued. It is not intended to be used by the individual's family or friends. It should only be used when the individual is travelling in the vehicle. For example, a wife out shopping must not use her husband's permit if her husband is at home caring for their children. The permit is for her husband's use when he is an occupant of the vehicle.

Q068. What should drivers do if they feel drowsy while driving?
Image: 1.
A. Turn up the radio.
B. Stop in a safe area and rest.
C. Reduce speed.
D. Open the window for some fresh air.
A068. B.
Explanation: It is very dangerous to drive while drowsy. If they begin to feel drowsy, drivers should pull over and rest in a safe area. Drivers should be certain that they are fully awake and alert at all times while driving.

Q069. When turning left onto a one-way road to a one-way road you must:
Image: 1.
A. Turn from the right curb lane to the left curb lane.
B. Turn from the right curb lane to the right curb lane.
C. Turn from the left curb lane to the left curb lane.
D. Turn from the left curb lane to the right curb lane.
A069. C.
Explanation:

Q070. Wet roadways can cause:
Image: 1.
A. Poor visibility.
B. Hydroplaning.
C. Loss of traction.
D. All answers are correct.
A070. D.
Explanation: Driving on wet roadways requires extra caution. Water spray can reduce visibility, so drivers should have their full headlight system on, and use windshield wipers and windshield wiper fluid as needed. Wet roadways can also cause loss of traction and/or hydroplaning. If this occurs, drivers should ease off the gas pedal to reduce speed naturally while maintaining control of the vehicle.

Q071. What is the consequence for the third or subsequent occurrence of a driver caught with a blood alcohol concentration in the "warn range" of 0.05 to 0.08?
Image: 1.
A. A mandatory alcohol treatment program.
B. A 30-day license suspension and a $150 fine.
C. All answers are correct.
D. An ignition interlock condition lasting six months.
A071. C.
Explanation: Drinking and driving is a serious and dangerous offense. It is always best not to drink if you need to drive, or to arrange alternate transportation if you have had any alcohol. Those who choose to continue to drive with their BAC in the "warn range" even after prior warnings will face immediate and long-term consequences in an effort to ensure they properly understand the dangers of drinking and driving.

Q072. Road test failures may result from:
Image: 1.
A. Lack of skill and control.
B. All answers are correct.
C. Difficulty obeying traffic laws.
D. Unsafe actions.
A072. B.
Explanation: Driver examiners will not issue a pass on a road test if the applicant breaks a traffic law during the test. They also will not issue a pass if the applicant lacks skill or control of the vehicle, has difficulty obeying traffic signals, or drives in an unsafe manner. At the end of each test, the examiner will give applicants a complete report of their skills and explain any mistakes they have made. If drivers fail the test, the report will show them where they need to improve. When they have had more practice, drivers can make an appointment to take the test again. Drivers must wait at least 10 days between tests.

Q073. Pedestrians facing a flashing or steady red hand symbol should:
Image: 1.
A. Wave at the red hand in order to be polite.
B. Cross slowly.
C. Race across the intersection as quickly as possible.
D. Not begin to cross the road. If they have already begun to cross, they should finish crossing quickly and safely.
A073. D.
Explanation: Pedestrians should always obey crossing signals. Unfortunately, pedestrians sometimes cross when and where they shouldn't. Drivers must yield right-of-way to pedestrians, even when pedestrians are 'in the wrong'.

Q074. The first time they reach 15 demerit points, fully-licensed G drivers will have their license:
Image: 1.
A. Suspended for 15 days.
B. Suspended for 6 months.
C. Suspended for 7 days.
D. Suspended for 30 days.
A074. D.
Explanation: At 15 demerit points, G drivers' licenses will be suspended for 30 days from the date they hand over their license to MTO. Drivers can lose their license for up to two years if they fail to surrender it. After the suspension, the number of points on their driver's record will be reduced to seven. At this stage, any further points could result in an interview, and if drivers reach 15 demerit points again, they will have their license suspended for 6 months. The demerit points system works differently for drivers with a G1 or G2 license.

Q075. If a traffic signal changes while a pedestrian is still on the street, who has the right-of-way?
Image: 1.
A. The pedestrian.
B. Motorists coming from right.
C. Motorists coming from left.
D. Motorists making a turn.
A075. A.
Explanation: Pedestrians must always be given the right-of-way, even if crossing illegally. It is never permissible to hit a pedestrian. If a driver accidentally hits a pedestrian, it is illegal for the driver to leave the scene, even if the pedestrian initially appears unhurt. The driver must immediately stop, give the pedestrian any assistance required, and report the incident to the police.

Q076. The Ministry of Transportation may suspend the license of G drivers after a 9 demerit point interview:
Image: 1.
A. If the driver fails to attend the interview, or fails to give good reasons for being permitted to keep the license.
B. The Ministry is not permitted to suspend licenses until drivers reach 15 demerit points.
C. If the driver does not have at least 5 years driving experience.
D. If the license is not needed for business purposes.
A076. A.
Explanation: If "G" drivers reach 9 demerit points, the MTO considers them potentially dangerous to themselves or others on the road. As a result, they may be required to attend an interview to discuss their driving record, and/or may be required to attend a re-examination of their driving ability. Drivers must attend the interview, and must be prepared to give good reasons for keeping their license, or their license may be suspended.

Q077. Under what circumstances could drivers lose their license?
Image: 1.
A. Failure to pay a traffic fine when ordered by the courts.
B. Failure to pay a reinstatement fee.
C. Failure to attend a re-examination.
D. All answers are correct.
A077. D.
Explanation: Drivers must not operate a motor vehicle while their license is under suspension. To reinstate their license, drivers must go to a Service Ontario location and pay a fine of $150. They may also need to take vision and road tests.

Q078. If a commercial vehicle becomes disabled on the highway during a period that lights are required, flares or reflectors must be placed on the front and the rear of vehicle at an approximate distance of...
Image: 1.
A. 90 m.
B. 30 m.
C. 15 m.
D. 60 m.
A078. B.
Explanation:

Q079. The best way to stop quickly on wet or icy roadways is to:
Image: 1.
A. Apply the brakes as usual; do not brake hard.
B. Brake hard and hold the wheel firmly to prevent the vehicle from skidding.
C. Brake firmly. If the wheels lock, release and reapply the brakes in quick succession until the vehicle comes to a stop.
D. Do not brake. Release the gas pedal and let the vehicle slow down and stop on its own.
A079. C.
Explanation: When drivers need to stop quickly on wet or icy roadways, the safest method to use is threshold braking, which involves braking until just before the wheels begin to lock, then releasing and reapplying the brakes as needed until the vehicle comes to a stop. Newer vehicles equipped with ABS braking systems do this work for drivers, making a thudding noise, and a jerking sensation which can be somewhat disconcerting the first or second time it occurs. Drivers should familiarize themselves with their vehicles and understand how to brake effectively in case of an emergency.

Q080. When approaching a railway crossing where an electrical or mechanical signal device is warning of an approaching train, drivers must:
Image: 1.
A. Accelerate and cross the tracks as quickly as possible.
B. Slow down and proceed across the tracks with extreme caution.
C. Stop at least 5 m from the nearest rail or gate.
D. Stop at least 1.5 m from the nearest rail or gate.
A080. C.
Explanation: Drivers must use caution around railway crossings. Trains can travel at high speeds, and are not able to stop suddenly. If a signal device is warning of an approaching train, it is dangerous to attempt to cross the train tracks. Drivers should never attempt to drive under or around railway barriers, even if they do not see a train approaching.

Q081. When parked facing downhill:
Image: 1.
A. The front wheels must be turned to the left and the parking brake must be set.
B. The front wheels must be turned towards the curb or right shoulder.
C. The direction of the wheels doesn't matter as long as the parking brake must be set.
D. The front wheels must be parallel to the curb.
A081. B.
Explanation: Every time drivers park, they must do so in a way that ensures the vehicle does not enter traffic if it moves unexpectedly. Parking downhill with the front wheels turned towards the curb ensures that the curb will help stop the vehicle if it moves ahead. Parking downhill with the front wheels turned towards the right shoulder ensures that the vehicle will turn further onto the shoulder rather than into live traffic if the vehicle moves ahead.

Q082. Before moving from a parked position:
Image: 1.
A. Signal and enter the live lane of traffic.
B. Check for other traffic and slowly enter the live lane of traffic.
C. Honk loudly and quickly enter the live lane of traffic.
D. Always signal and check mirrors and blind spot for traffic; enter the live lane of traffic only when it is safe to do so.
A082. D.
Explanation: Entering a live lane of traffic improperly can be dangerous. Drivers should begin by signaling their intention. Next, drivers should complete a mirror and shoulder check to determine whether there is oncoming traffic. When the live lane of traffic is clear, drivers should enter the lane and smoothly accelerate to the appropriate speed.

Q083. When is it permissible to use only the parking lights on a vehicle?
Image: 1.
A. When driving in heavy fog.
B. Only when parked.
C. At any time.
D. When driving on a well-lit street.
A083. B.
Explanation: When used on their own, parking lights are intended only for parking and are primarily used when parking in dark areas where visibility is required, such as on the shoulder of a highway at night. It is not safe to drive with only the parking lights on. When operating a motor vehicle, drivers must use their full headlight system to ensure their vehicle is visible to other drivers.

Q084. If you are reversing to the left...?
Image: 1.
A. Turn your body and head to the right and look back over your right shoulder.
B. Turn your body and head to the left and look over your left shoulder.
A084. B.
Explanation: While firmly holding the steering wheel, put the gear selector in reverse and turn sideways in your seat to look over your shoulder in the direction you are moving.

Q085. When another vehicle attempts to pass:
Image: 1.
A. Drivers should accelerate so that passing is not necessary.
B. Drivers should move to the right and let it pass.
C. Drivers should move to the left to prevent passing.
D. Drivers should tap their brakes to tell the other driver not to pass.
A085. B.
Explanation: On a multi-lane road, the right lane is supposed to be used for travel and for slower traffic, while the left lane is supposed to be used by drivers who are passing a vehicle in the right lane. If a vehicle is approached from behind by another while the driver is using the left lane, the driver of the vehicle should move to the right lane and permit the other vehicle to pass. Drivers who use the left lane to pass another vehicle should move to the right lane after they have completed the pass, if it is safe to do so. Slower drivers should remain in the right lane so that they do not obstruct the flow of traffic.

Q086. Objects that cannot be seen in a vehicle's rear and side view mirrors are said to be in the vehicle's:
Image: 1.
A. Blind spot.
B. Danger zone.
C. Safe zone.
D. Dark area.
A086. A.
Explanation: The blind spot is an area of the vehicle, on each side of the vehicle, where objects simply cannot be seen in any of the mirrors. This is due to limitations of mirrors in all vehicles. Larger vehicles have larger blind spots. The existence of blind spots is why drivers must always perform a proper shoulder check before changing lanes. A good policy for drivers to have is to avoid situations where another vehicle is travelling in their own blind spot and to avoid driving in another vehicle's blind spot as much as possible. To avoid driving in another vehicle's blind spot, either accelerate out of the blind spot or slow down and drop back out of the blind spot, whichever is safest given the road conditions.

Q087. Drivers licensed under the Graduated Driver License Program are restricted from operating a vehicle:
Image: 1.
A. With a blood alcohol level over 0.08%.
B. During daytime hours.
C. Without a supervisor.
D. When any amount of alcohol has been consumed.
A087. D.
Explanation: Under the Graduated Driver License Program, G1 and G2 drivers are not permitted to operate a vehicle after having consumed any amount of alcohol. It is dangerous for all drivers, including those with a G license, to drive after having consumed alcoholic beverages. People should always avoid driving after consuming alcohol: they should get a ride from a designated driver, call a cab, or arrange an alternate form of transportation home.

Q088. What should drivers do when exiting a freeway?
Image: 1.
A. Signal, move into the deceleration lane, reduce speed gradually and obey exit signs.
B. Signal and accelerate while merging smoothly into the exit lane.
C. Do what the vehicle ahead does.
D. Signal, then stop to wait for an opening in traffic.
A088. A.
Explanation: When exiting a freeway, the most common mistake drivers make is failing to reduce speed appropriately. Drivers should use the deceleration lane to reduce their speed sufficiently to safely negotiate any curves on the exit ramp, and transition to the speed of local roadways. Drivers should not cut across freeway lanes to exit. If they miss their exit, drivers should continue along the freeway, take the next exit, and readjust their route accordingly.

Q089. Unless otherwise posted, the maximum speed limit allowed on a highway outside a city, town, village or built-up area is:
Image: 1.
A. 50 km/h.
B. 80 km/h.
C. 100 km/h.
D. 60 km/h.
A089. B.
Explanation: Drivers need to be aware of the permissible speed limits on roadways, and follow the unsigned speed limit rules. In the case given, the maximum speed is 80 km/h. In towns or villages, the maximum speed is 50 km/h unless otherwise posted.

Q090. When approaching vehicles that leave their high beams on at night, drivers should:
Image: 1.
A. Look at the headlights of the approaching vehicle.
B. Lookup beyond and slightly to the right of the oncoming lights.
C. Turn their lights on high beam as well.
D. Open and shut their eyes continuously and rapidly.
A090. B.
Explanation: Drivers can be temporarily blinded by the high beams of oncoming vehicles. To avoid this, drivers should not look directly at the headlights, but rather up and slightly to the right of the oncoming vehicle's headlights. It is dangerous for drivers to flash their own high beams at drivers of oncoming vehicles, as those drivers might be temporarily blinded as well, increasing the potential of a collision.

Q091. Skids usually result from:
Image: 1.
A. Accelerating too quickly.
B. All of the answers are correct.
C. Driving too fast.
D. Hard braking.
A091. B.
Explanation: Skids can also occur due to tire blowouts, wet, slick road surfaces, or black ice (ice that is transparent and practically invisible to drivers). If a skid occurs, drivers should remain calm, avoid hard braking or quick acceleration, and steer in the direction they wish to travel.

Q092. How many days do new Ontario residents have to register their vehicles?
Image: 1.
A. 120 days.
B. 90 days.
C. 30 days.
D. 60 days.
A092. C.
Explanation: New Ontario residents are required to register motor vehicles within 30 days of purchase. Drivers need to bring: 1.Driver's licence. 2. To register plates that they already have, drivers need the plate portion of their vehicle permit . 3. The completed used vehicle information package when registering a used vehicle. 4. Proof of purchase. This can be a receipt from the seller or a portion of a used vehicle information package that can be used as a bill of sale. 5.The original vehicle permit from the seller with completed transfer portion. 6. Proof of insurance (required putting license plates on the vehicle) 7. Drive Clean vehicle emissions test. Once the vehicle is registered, drivers will be issued a vehicle permit.

Q093. What should drivers do when a car is waiting to allow a pedestrian to cross at a marked crosswalk?
Image: 1.
A. They should wait: drivers must not pass any vehicle within 30 m of a pedestrian crosswalk.
B. They should honk so that the car will drive on.
C. They should pass to the right of the car.
D. They should pass to the left of the car.
A093. A.
Explanation: Drivers must not pass vehicles within 30 m of a marked pedestrian crosswalk. If drivers pass the stopped vehicle, they are liable to hit any pedestrian attempting to cross at the crosswalk.

Q094. During poor weather conditions such as rain, snow, smoke and fog, which beam should headlights be on:
Image: 1.
A. Headlights should not be used under these conditions.
B. High beam.
C. Low beam.
D. It doesn't matter, just have the headlights on.
A094. C.
Explanation: Poor weather conditions can decrease visibility considerably. Drivers might think high beam headlights would increase visibility, but in conditions such as heavy rain, snow, smoke or fog, light from high beams reflects back off the particles in the air and actually decreases visibility. Keep lights on low beams under these conditions.

Q095. Under all conditions drivers should travel at a speed that will allow them to:
Image: 1.
A. Stop within 150 m.
B. Stop within 90 m.
C. Stop within 60 m.
D. Stop within a safe distance.
A095. D.
Explanation: The posted speed limit is intended to be the maximum speed drivers should use; under unfavorable conditions, drivers should reduce speed accordingly. This could occur when driving in heavy rain that causes reduced visibility. When driving in heavy traffic that is moving quickly, drivers should not travel above posted limits, and should ensure that they are able to stop within a safe distance of other vehicles.

Q096. The hand-and-arm signal for slowing or stopping is indicated by:
Image: 1.
A. Arm straight out the window.
B. Circular motion of the arm.
C. Arm out and up.
D. Arm out and down.
A096. D.
Explanation: When travelling in a vehicle that is not equipped with properly working turn or brake signals, drivers are required to use hand signals to indicate their intentions. Arm out and down indicates slowing or stopping. Arm straight out the window indicates a left turn. Arm out and up indicates a right turn. Arm signals are for temporary use only: if a vehicle's signals are not working properly, drivers are required by law to repair them as quickly as possible.

Q097. Unless turning left or passing another vehicle, drivers should:
Image: 1.
A. Drive in the center of the roadway.
B. Keep to the right of the road or in the right-hand lane on multi-lane roads.
C. Keep to the left of the road or in the left-hand lane on multi-lane roads.
D. Drive on the right shoulder of the roadway.
A097. B.
Explanation: The right lane of roadways is intended as a driving lane, while the left lane is intended as the passing lane. Drivers should remain in the right lane unless passing. Once drivers have passed another vehicle, they should pull back into the right lane to permit other vehicles to pass as well.

Q098. At 15 demerit points a driver's license will be suspended for 30 days. After the suspension, the number of demerit points on a fully-licensed driver's record will be reduced to:
Image: 1.
A. Five.
B. Seven.
C. Three.
D. Ten.
A098. B.
Explanation: Demerit points can be issued against a driver's license for many reasons. The following web site includes a complete list of offenses and resulting demerit points for Ontario drivers:
http://www.ontario.ca/driving-and-roads/understanding-demerit-points
Demerit point rules for drivers with G1 or G2 licenses are different than those for fully licensed drivers. Novice drivers' licenses are suspended for 60 days if they accumulate 9 demerit points or more. After the suspension period, their demerit points will be reduced to 4. If a license has been suspended, the driver is not legally permitted to drive a motor vehicle, and must not do so.

Q099. Drivers who fail or refuse to give a breath or blood sample when asked by police:
Image: 1.
A. Will receive a warning letter by mail.
B. Will have their license suspended immediately for 90 days.
C. Will have their license suspended immediately for 30 days.
D. Will have their license suspended immediately for 7 days.
A099. B.
Explanation: Drivers are required to provide a breath or blood sample when asked by police. Refusing to do so generally indicates to the police that the driver has been drinking, and results in immediate consequences. Whenever drivers are planning to consume alcoholic beverages, the safest practice is to arrange for alternate transportation afterwards. It is dangerous to drive after consuming alcoholic beverages.

Q100. Drivers must switch to low beam headlights while driving a vehicle at night if:
Image: 1.
A. Approaching an oncoming vehicle or following another vehicle.
B. Another driver dims his lights.
C. Approaching an intersection.
D. Blinded by the headlights of an approaching vehicle.
A100. A.
Explanation: Where roadways are not lit, high beam headlights enable drivers to see further ahead. High beam headlights are aimed higher, so they can blind drivers of oncoming vehicles as well as drivers of vehicles ahead. Safe and courteous drivers always switch to low beam headlights when approaching an oncoming vehicle or a vehicle ahead of them.

Q101. At any intersection where you want to turn left or right...?
Image: 1.
A. If you are turning left or right, you must wait for pedestrians to cross.
B. If you are turning left, you must wait for approaching traffic to pass.
C. If you are turning right, you should check your blind spot for cyclists approaching from behind.
D. All of these.
A101. D.
Explanation:

Q102. How many demerit points will be recorded against a driver's license if the driver fails to remain at the scene of a collision?
Image: 1.
A. 5 Points.
B. 7 Points.
C. 10 Points.
D. 4 Points.
A102. B.
Explanation: If drivers are involved in a collision that causes damage in excess of $2000, or in which anyone is injured, they are required by law to call the police and remain at the scene of the accident until the police have arrived and given them permission to leave. Failure to do so may result in high fines, cancellation of insurance, and imprisonment for up to 5 years.

Q103. Rules for both G1 & G2 license holders include:
Image: 1.
A. Drivers must not operate a motor vehicle if they have been drinking alcohol.
B. All of the answers are correct.
C. Drivers' blood alcohol must be zero.
D. Each person in the vehicle must wear a seat belt.
A103. B.
Explanation: G1 and G2 license holders have greater restrictions than drivers who have their full G license because they are still in the process of developing driving skills. To ensure their safety and the safety of others on the road, greater restrictions are imposed on these drivers.

Q104. The hand-and-arm signal for left turn is indicated by:
Image: 1.
A. Arm out and up.
B. Arm straight out the window.
C. Circular motion of the arm.
D. Arm out and down.
A104. B.
Explanation: If your turn signals and brake lights are not working, use hand and arm signals. After signalling, move only when it is safe to do so.

Q105. If a tire blows out, drivers should:
Image: 1.
A. Brake quickly, as hard as the brakes are able to work.
B. Apply the brake and steer to left.
C. Release the gas pedal to slow down and steer the vehicle firmly in the direction they want to go.
D. Apply the brake and steer to right.
A105. C.
Explanation: In emergency situations such as a tire blowout, drivers need to remain calm. Panic will increase the likelihood of accident and injury. Heavy braking should be avoided in the case of a tire blowout. Drivers should release the gas pedal, which allows the vehicle's speed to decrease naturally. At the same time, drivers should grip the steering wheel firmly and steer in the direction they wish to travel.

Q106. It is more dangerous to drive at the maximum speed limit at night than during the day because:
Image: 1.
A. Some drivers unlawfully drive with parking lights only.
B. Drivers' reaction time is slower at night.
C. Drivers cannot see as far ahead, even with headlights.
D. The roadways are more apt to be slippery at night.
A106. C.
Explanation: While drivers should be cautious and alert at all times, nighttime driving has unique challenges, the greatest of which is reduced visibility. Headlights, even high beam headlights, cannot provide the same visibility as daylight. Other hazards include the greater likelihood of deer crossing country roads, as well as the greater possibility of fog. It is possible to 'overdrive' the headlights: this occurs when drivers travel at speeds that are too fast to allow proper processing time given the visibility provided by their headlights. Drivers should always adjust their speed to the road conditions they encounter.

Q107. When descending a steep hill, a good, safe driving practice is to:
Image: 1.
A. Place the vehicle into neutral.
B. Engage the clutch and coast.
C. Turn off the ignition.
D. Gear down, using the motor to assist in braking.
A107. D.
Explanation: When descending a steep hill, vehicles naturally speed up. If drivers permit their vehicle to speed up too much, they may lose control of the vehicle. Brakes will slow the vehicle but if the hill is large, drivers should use more than just the brakes. Lower gears slow the motor naturally, thus assisting the brakes in controlling the vehicle. Drivers should not turn off the ignition, as they will not be able to control the vehicle. Placing the vehicle in neutral or engaging the clutch will cause the vehicle to accelerate further as it travels downhill, so these actions are not safe.

Q108. If a front tire goes flat, the vehicle will pull strongly to:
Image: 1.
A. The side of the road.
B. The left side.
C. The right side.
D. The side that has the flat tire.
A108. D.
Explanation: If drivers experience a flat tire while driving, they should remain calm and hold the steering wheel firmly to maintain control of the vehicle. As soon as it is safe to do so, drivers should gradually reduce speed and pull off the roadway to deal with the flat tire.

Q109. If a vehicle becomes disabled on a 400-series highway, the driver should:
Image: 1.
A. Pull over, turn on the emergency flashers and wait for help.
B. Honk the horn in order to signal for help.
C. Get out and try to wave highway traffic around the vehicle.
D. Get out and walk to get help.
A109. A.
Explanation: Being in a disabled vehicle on a highway is potentially quite dangerous. Pull over as far as possible from the highway. Turn on hazard lights if possible. Roll down the window on the driver's side, hang out a white cloth or piece of paper, and roll the window back up to secure it in place: the cloth or paper alerts other drivers that there is a problem. Drivers should never attempt to walk on a highway.

Q110. What must drivers do before entering a highway from a private road or driveway?
Image: 1.
A. Enter or cross the highway as quickly as possible.
B. Yield right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the highway.
C. Make the appropriate hand signal then take the right-of-way.
D. Honk loudly and proceed with caution.
A110. B.
Explanation: Extra caution is required when entering a highway from a private road or driveway. Drivers must take into account the fact that highway traffic is travelling at higher speeds than local traffic, so drivers must ensure that they have enough time between oncoming vehicles to enter the highway and accelerate to the speed limit. Drivers who enter a highway without yielding to other vehicles will likely become involved in a collision, since highway drivers are travelling at higher speeds and may not have time to slow down enough to avoid colliding with them.

Q111. When a red "X" is indicated over a driving lane:
Image: 1.
A. Drivers must not enter or remain in that lane.
B. There is a traffic light ahead.
C. The red "X" applies only to pedestrians.
D. Drivers must stop immediately.
A111. A.
Explanation: Reversible lanes are lanes in which traffic may travel in either direction, depending on the overhead signal displayed (a green arrow or a red X). Reversible lanes are used to improve traffic flow during rush hours.

Q112. A broken line to the left of a lane means:
Image: 1.
A. Drivers may pass only during day light hours.
B. Drivers may pass if the way is clear.
C. Drivers may pass at any time.
D. Drivers must not pass.
A112. B.
Explanation: Drivers must always pass other vehicles with caution, even when permitted by lane markings. On a two-lane highway, drivers will have to enter the oncoming traffic lane to pass another vehicle. Drivers must scan the road ahead to determine whether there is sufficient time to pass the vehicle, taking into account any oncoming traffic that is present. In order to pass, drivers must signal their intention, perform a proper mirror and shoulder check, pull to the left and pass the vehicle, leaving a two-second gap behind them and the vehicle that has been passed before returning to the proper driving lane. Drivers should not cut off the vehicle they have just passed, as this could cause an accident.

Q113. A three-point turn starts from the ___________ of the road.
Image: 1.
A. Any side.
B. Far right side.
C. Center.
D. Left side.
A113. B.
Explanation: On narrow roads you need to make a three-point turn to change directions. Make sure you do not make a three-point turn on a curve in the road, on or near a railway crossing or hilltop, or near a bridge or tunnel that blocks your view.

Q114. What is the minimum following distance drivers must maintain from an emergency vehicle that has its lights or sirens on?
Image: 1.
A. 150 m.
B. 50 m.
C. 100 m.
D. 250 m.
A114. A.
Explanation: Emergency vehicles with lights or sirens on need to arrive at their destination as quickly as possible. They may have to change course suddenly to avoid vehicles ahead, or to use an alternate route if their original one is blocked. Drivers must maintain a safe travelling distance behind emergency vehicles to enable these vehicles to travel safely at higher speeds.

Q115. In good weather conditions drivers are required to keep a safe distance behind the vehicle in front. Drivers should keep at least:
Image: 1.
A. One second's distance behind the other vehicle.
B. Two to three second's distance behind the other vehicle.
C. Seven car lengths behind the other vehicle.
D. Five cars length behind the other vehicle.
A115. B.
Explanation: A simple way for drivers to check that they are following a safe distance behind another vehicle is to use a marker such as a road sign and begin counting "one-one-thousand, two-one-thousand,..." from the time the other vehicle passes the sign until the time their vehicle passes the sign. A count of 'two-one-thousand" or higher indicates that the vehicle is at least two second's distance behind the other vehicle. In poor driving conditions, drivers should allow a greater travelling distance to ensure they are able to stop safely if needed. Note: Using the tag one-thousand after each number helps ensure counting is done at regular intervals.

Q116. The nearest a driver may park to a fire hydrant is:
Image: 1.
A. 6 metres.
B. 3 metres.
C. 2 metres.
D. 5 metres.
A116. B.
Explanation: Parking too close to a fire hydrant can obstruct fire vehicles and fire fighters from accessing the hydrant when needed. This can endanger others if a fire occurs. In an emergency situation, firefighters have the right to smash windows of vehicles that are obstructing hydrant access, and run their hose through the vehicle; this process is nicknamed "hosing." If a vehicle is hosed, firefighters do not have to pay for repairs: the owner of the vehicle is responsible for repair costs.

Q117. Hydroplaning can cause vehicles to skid. The term "hydroplaning" occurs when:
Image: 1.
A. The vehicle's tires ride on top of the water, as if they were water skis.
B. The vehicle encounters black ice on the roadway.
C. The vehicle develops a flat tire.
D. The vehicle's tire pressure is too high.
A117. A.
Explanation: Any form of moisture on the ground can cause a tire to lift up off the pavement slightly, allowing water to get under the tire and cause hydroplaning. Once this happens, steering ability is temporarily lost because tires are unable to get any traction with the pavement. Drivers should avoid panic, and steer in the direction they wish to travel once the tires regain traction. Drivers should not brake or accelerate suddenly when hydroplaning occurs, as this will cause further skidding.

Q118. If a vehicle's wheels go off the paved road, what should a driver do?
Image: 1.
A. Grip the steering wheel firmly and avoid heavy braking.
B. Release the gas pedal, allowing the vehicle to slow down naturally.
C. All of the answers are correct.
D. Keep the vehicle under control and steer back onto the paved road.
A118. C.
Explanation: In any emergency situation, it is important that drivers remain calm and maintain control of their vehicle. Often drivers panic and apply the brakes heavily. This could cause skidding and make the situation worse. Jerking the steering wheel quickly to attempt to get back on the road is also likely to result in skidding. Instead, drivers should grip the steering wheel firmly, avoid heavy braking, release the gas pedal so the vehicle will slow naturally, gradually steer the vehicle back onto the paved road, and accelerate up to the speed limit after the tires are back on the roadway.

Q119. When deciding to make a U turn, drivers must first observe:
Image: 1.
A. The turning radius of the road.
B. Posted traffic regulations.
C. Weather conditions.
D. The height of the curbs at the sides of the road.
A119. B.
Explanation: Drivers must not perform U-turns where prohibited. "No U-turn" signs are placed in areas where U-turns are considered to be unsafe due to typical traffic or visibility conditions. To make a U-turn safely, drivers must be able to see at least 150 m in both directions. It is illegal to make a U-turn on a curve in the road, on or near a railway crossing or hilltop, or near a bridge or tunnel that blocks the driver's view. To make the U-turn, drivers should signal a right turn, check their mirror and blind spot and pull over to the right side of the road. Then they should stop, signal a left turn, and when traffic is clear in both directions move forward turning quickly and sharply into the opposite lane. It's important for drivers to continue to check for traffic as they turn.

Q120. The fine for not using a child car seat or booster seat as required by law is...?
Image: 1.
A. Three demerit points.
B. Up to $500 plus three demerit points.
C. Up to $1,000 plus two demerit points.
D. Four demerit points.
A120. C.
Explanation: In Ontario, all drivers are required to use proper child car seats and booster seats when transporting young children.
